# A first boring bit: Episode I

## Prologue

Let's start at the beginning: I'm trying to route some of my creative juices
back to drawing and digital painting. There are many online guides for the
self-taught artist which requires discipline and hard work; I don't have as
much time or energy as I used to for of that. For this reason I am identifying
the boring bits in this journey and I hope that others would be inspired to
find, use, or create tools to skip the boring bits. Instead of learning and
training my skill and discipline, I will instead offload this time to
researching, implementing, and using tools to get me past my boring bits.

I am not trying to be a world class artist. I don't care about "cheating". The
boring bits are things that I don't really care about mastering (maybe just
right now) and if there are tools and solutions to glide past it, I will use
them with no hesitation. I know myself enough that I without "cheating" I will
never get anywhere close to where I want to be with drawing and painting.

My role model for this is Sandra Lee of the good old Food network, who I
watched as a kid. She unabashedly used pre-made and pre-packaged ingredients to
cut down time and things she didn't care about: Pre-minced garlic, pre-sliced
mushrooms, pre-cooked onions. She taught me that you don't have to make
everything yourself to be a decent meal; I don't need to do everything myself
to be a decent artist.

Thank you, Sandra.

![Thank you, Sandra Lee](prologue/sandra-lee.jpg)

## The first boring bit: Cameras, Perspective, and Construction

The first boring bit I'm encountering is perspective and construction. This is
literally the first subject any good art student learns. I, for one, am not a
good artist and I don't care.

Thanks to the wonderful world of computer graphics and mathematics, we all can
have perfect perspective!

I will be implementing this in Houdini because learning how to use and develop
for another DCC application would be another boring bit. Houdini has the
non-commercial version which is free for anyone to use.

## Todo

- [ ] Implement shader that will paint grids on the object
- [X] Implement fisheye camera in VEX/CVEX
- [ ] Script to render image and copy to clipboard to easy pasting into Krita

## Resources

[CVEX Houdini fisheye camera - Matt Ebb](http://mattebb.com/blog/weblog/houdini-fisheye-camera/)
